---
title: "Algebraic Spaces & (Pre)Stacks"
date: 2022-07-02 12:00:00 -800
categories: [Algebraic Geometry]
tags: [Stacks]
---
The theory of algebraic spaces and stacks arised from the study of moduli spaces in algebraic geometry. Loosely speaking, a *moduli space* is a space $\mathcal M$ where there is a $1:1$ correspondence between points of $\mathcal M$ and isomorphism classes of certain types of algebra-geometric objectcs. For example, the moduli space $\mathcal M$ could be a topological space, complex manifold, or an algebraic variety and the isomorphism classes of particular objects could be of smooth curves or vector bundles on a fixed curve. Moreover, moduli spaces come from the attempt to answer the classification problem; for example, in algebraic geometry, we would want to classify projecetive varieties, or we could want to classify all vector bundles on a fixed variety---the moduli space is itself the solution to the classification problem.

## 1. Stacks

## 1.1. Sites & Sheaves

This section aims to describe the basic aspects of Gorthendieck topologies/sites. The idea of Grothendieck is that if we wanted to develop the tools of sheaves of topological spaces we wouldn't need to rely strictly only to topological spaces. We can develop this machinery in a more general way of considering a category with certain collections of maps which are called *coverings*. A category that has such coverings is called a *site*. For example, if we had the category of open subsets of topological space (which what the machinery of sheaves is normally developed under the guise of), with morphisms being inclusions, is such an example of a site. In particular, in the algebraic geometry realm, we want to consider a topology on a scheme where étale morphisms are the open sets.

**Definition 1.1.1.** A **Grothendieck topology** on a category $\mathcal S$ consists of the following data: for each object $X \in \mathcal S$, there is a set $\text{Cov} (X)$ consisting of **coverings** of $X$, that is, a collection of morphisms $\\{ X_i \to X \\} _{i \in I}$ in $\mathcal S$. We require the following properties:   
1. If $X ^\prime \to X$ is an isomorphism, then $(X ^\prime \to X) \in \text{Cov} (X)$.     
2. If $\\{ X_i \to X \\} _{i \in I} \in \text{Cov} (X)$ and $Y \to X$ is any morphism, then the fiber product $X_i \times _X Y$ exists in $\mathcal S$ and the collection \\[ \\{ X_i \times _X Y \to Y\\} _{i \in I} \in \text{Cov}(Y). \\]    
3. If $\\{ X_i \to X \\} _{i \in I} \in \text{Cov}(X)$ and $ \\{ X _{ij} \to X _i \\} _{j \in J _i} \in \text{Cov}(X_i)$ for each $i \in I$, then \\[ \\{ X _{ij} \to X_i \to X \\} _{i \in I, j \in J_i}  \in \text{Cov}(X). \\]
A **site** is a category $\mathcal S$ with a Grothendieck topology.

**Example 1.1.2.** (Classical Topology) Let $X$ be a topological space, and let $\mathcal S$ be the category with objects as open subsets of $X$ and morphisms being inclusions; if $U \subseteq V$ then there is exactly one morphism from $U$ into $V$ and no other morphisms. For an object $U$ in $\mathcal S$, we define $\text{Cov}(U)$ to be the collections $\\{ U_i \to U \\}$ where $U = \bigcup _{i} U_i$. This defines a Grothendieck topology on $\mathcal S$.    In particular, we can note that if $X$ is scheme, the Zariski-topology on $X$ produces a site, which is commonly reffered to as the *small Zariski site*. 

**Example 1.1.3.** (Small étale site). Let $X$ be a scheme. We define $X _{ét}$, which is called the *small étale site* on $X$, to be the full subcategory of $\mathfrak {Sch} /X$ whose objects are étale morphisms $U \to X$, i.e. consisting of schemes étale over $X$. A collection of morphisms $\\{ U_i \to U \\} _{i \in I}$ is in $\text{Cov} (U)$ if the map $\bigsqcup _i U_i \to U$ is surjective. 

**Example 1.1.4.** (Big étale site). The *big étale site* is the category $\mathfrak {Sch}$ where a covering of a scheme $X$ is a collection of étale morphisms $\\{ U_i \to X \\}$ in $\mathfrak {Sch}$ such that $\bigsqcup _i U_i \to X$ is sujective. We denote the big étale site by $\mathfrak{Sch} _{Ét}$.

**Example 1.1.5.**(fppf site). Let $X$ be a scheme. We define $X _{\text{fppf}}$ to be the site where the underlying category is the category $\mathfrak{Aff}/X$ of affine schemes over $X$. We define a Grothendieck topology on this category by declaring that a collection of morphisms $\\{ f \colon U _i \to Y \\} _{i \in I}$ is a covering family if each $f_i$ is a flat morphism that is also of locally of finite presentation, and we have that $Y = \bigcup _i f_i (U_i)$.
