---
title: "Adic Spaces: Valuations"
date: 2023-03-13 12:00:00 -800
categories: [Algebra, Arithmetic Geometry]
tags: [Rings,  Valuations, Arithmetic Geometry]
math: true
---

The use of *valuations rings*, and almost anything surrounding a *valuation* is a hot topic in algebra. For great reason though: they're incredibly useful! In particular, the theory of valuations is vast and is useful in the field of arithmetic geometry; this is our motivation. The overall treatment will, in a way, follow **[Hub93]**---there has been a large change in terminology in the literature. We learn about valuations for the sake of learning more about so-called *adic spaces* and other adjacent structures. There's many ways to begin this discussion as there are in fact a couple of equivalent definitions for the things we want to look at. For example, a discrete valuation ring can be developed in terms of a particular discrete valuation on a field, say, $v \colon k \to \mathbb Z \cup  \\\{ + \infty \\\}$, whereby we define the *discrete valuation ring*, with respect to this valuation, as $\mathcal O_k := \\\{ x \in k \colon v(x) \geq 0 \\\}$. Alternatively, you can begin with instead $A$ being a Noetherian domain with fraction field $k$, with $A$ not a field. Then $A$ is a *discrete valuation ring* if $x $ or $x^{-1}$ is in $A$ for each $x \in k^\times$. In an algebraic geometry course of mine, taken just last semester in Fall $2022$, we followed the latter construction of a discrete valuation ring, so we will (in a biased way) proceed in this way.

## 1. Valuations

**Definition 1.1.** If $A$ and $B$ are local rings, we say that **$B$ dominates $A$** if $\mathfrak m_A \subset \mathfrak m_B$, i.e. $\mathfrak m_A = \mathfrak m_B \cap A$.

For a field $k$, we can consider its local subrings, and order them in terms with dominations. That is, for two local subrings $(A, \mathfrak m_A)$ and $(B, \mathfrak m_ B)$ of $k$, we write $A \leq B$ if and only if $B$ dominates $A$, i.e. $A \leq B$ if and only if $\mathfrak m_A \subset \mathfrak m_B$.

**Definition 1.2. ([Sta, <a href="https://stacks.math.columbia.edu/tag/00I9">Tag 00I9</a>])** Let $A$ be a ring. We say $A$ is a **valuation ring** if $A$ is a local domain and if $A$ is maximal for the relation of domination among local rings contained in the fraction field of $A$.


There are in fact many more ways to define a valuation ring, for example, consider the following Proposition from [Mor19] which is essentially all we're going to need to characterize valuation rings: 

**Proposition 1.3. ([Mor19, Proposition I.1.1.4.])** Let $k$ be a field with $R \subset k$ a subring. The following are equivalent: 

1. $R$ is local and it is maximal for the relation of domination (amnog local subrings of $k$);
2. for every $x \in k^\times$, we have $x \in R$ or $x^{-1} \in R$;
3. $\text{Frac } (R) = k$, and the set of ideals of $R$ is totally ordered for inclusion. 
4. $\text{Frac } (R) = k$, and the set of principal ideals of $R$ is totally ordered for inclusion.

**Definition 1.4.** An integral domain $A$ with field of fractions $k$ is called a **valuation ring** if $k$ and $A$ satisfy the equivalent conditions in Proposition 1.3.

## Refrences
[Sta] The Stacks project authors, *The Stacks Project*, <a href="https://stacks.math.columbia.edu">stacks.math.columbia.edu</a>, 2023

[Mor19] Sophie Morel, *Adic Spaces*, <a href="https://web.math.princeton.edu/~smorel/adic_notes.pdf">web.math.princeton.edu/~smorel/adic_notes.pdf</a>, 2023


[Hub93] R. Huber. *Continuous valuations*. Mathematische Zeitschrift, **212**:455--477, 1993.

