---
title: "Arithmetic Geometry_0:  What is Arithmetic Geometry?" 
date: 2023-03-18 12:00:00 -800
categories: [Arithmetic Geometry]
tags: [Arithmetic Geometry]
math: true
---

I just now got a copy of *An invitation to Arithmetic Geometry* by Dino Lorenzini, which I'm very excited to get into. Arithmetic geometry, even though I'm not trained in, is my main interest; somewhat strange as I've never gotten into the mud with the subject before until now. Actually, my main motivation (well now it's second as I learned I loved the subject independently from this) to learn algebraic geometry (the theory of schemes in particular) was to learn arithmetic geometry later down the line. Sadly, in a way, *An invitation to Arithmetic Geometry*, from what I've skimmed, doesn't employ the theory of schemes: one can see this as a benefit or a drawback. Personally, I do not mind as I think I will be able to think of arithmetic geometry in a more conrete and down-to-earth way as the machinery of scheme theory could make some concepts in arithmetic geometry blurred as it's my first formal introduction. We should note that this book's main focus is on the dimension one cases,i.e. curves in alg. geometry such as $\mathbb A ^1_{\mathbb \Z /p\mathbb Z}= \mathrm{Spec \,} \mathbb Z / p \mathbb Z [T]$ (or rings of dimension one in commutative algebra).

I plan to use this website as notes, in a way: there are twelve sections to the book and what my plan is for now is to go through each section where in the end I'll write a corresponding post on here to summarize my understanding. Writing freely about what I have learned and solidified in my own will definitely bring to me a better understanding. Beyond these posts, my own ambition is to host a learning seminar for arithmetic geometry (possibly following this book along) in the fall of this year.




At a first encounter, we should establish what we mean by *arithmetic geometry*:

> Arithmetic geometry is subfield of algebraic geometry and algebraic number theory that is focused on their intersection. That is, and you should take this to very loosely, $ \mathsf{Arithmetic \; geometry} \subset \mathsf{Alg. \; geometry} \cap \mathsf{Alg.\;  number \; theory}$. In particular, for a ring $k$, arithmetic geometry is concerned with the study of solutions in $k^n$ of a family of polynomials in $n$ variables with the coefficients coming from the ring $k$ (such as $k = \mathbb Z$, $k = \mathbb Q$, and/or $k = \mathbb Z/p\mathbb Z$). Likely the most famous problem coming from arithmetic geometry is Fermat's Last Theorem, which states that for $x,y,z \in k = \mathbb Z$ the equation $x^n+y^n = z^n$ has only trivial solution for $n > 2$. In proving this famous conjecture made by Fermat in 1637, Ribet's proof (inspired from an idea of Frey and Serre, if I'm remembering correctly) that Fermat's Last Theorem follows from a weaker form of the Taniyama–Shimura-Weil conjecture. 
