---
title: "On a Diophantine Equation"
date: 2024-02-22 12:00:00 -800
categories: [Arithmetic Geometry, Number Theory]
tags: [Euler's Conjecture]
math: true
---

This post should be as: One the equation $A^6 = B^6 + C^6 + D^6 + E^6 + F^6$.


What I've been interested in as of today is on Euler's sum of powers conjecture, which of course has been disproven to be true. Just to make sure we're on the same page, the conjecture states the following:

*Conjecture (False)*. Let $n$ and $k$ be positive integers. If 
$$ X_1^k + X_2^k + \cdots X_n^k = Y^k,$$
 then $n \geq k$.

This should look somewhat familiar, as the case of $n = 2$ is Fermat's Last Theorem, i.e. $X_1^k + Y_2^k = Z^k$ implies $2 \geq k$. Thus, for the case of $k = 3$, the conjecture holds true. However, for $k=4$ and $k=5$, the conjecture is known to be false. It was disproven with a computer search for $k=5$ (presumably, the smallest solutions); the counterexample is $144^5 = 27^5 + 84^5 + 110^5 + 133^5$. For $k =4$, Noam Elkies provided a counterexample: $20615673^{4}=2682440^{4}+15365639^{4}+18796760^{4}$, although his method was much more methodical—we will look into his method for the first section of this post. What I've been thinking about now is the case of $k = 6$, which has a lot of nice properties. But, it is unknown whether the conjecture fails or holds for any value $k \geq 6$. I do not have a personal belief whether or not a solution should exist yet, but I've broken down some cases. 


### 1. Elkies' $k=4$ counterexample.


### 2. On the case of $k=6$
Say we wanted to disprove for this case as well: we should omit possible cases. To disprove the case of $k=6$, we want to show that we have a nontrival solution to the polynomial $f = X_1^6 + X_2^6 + \cdots + X_5^6 - Y^6$  in $\mathbb Z [X_1, \ldots, X_7]$. What can be immediately worked on is to omit possible cases. Suppose we have a solution $(x_1, x_2,\ldots, x_5, y) \in \mathbb Z^{\oplus 7}$. It can be checked that we cannot have as a solution $(x, \ldots, x, y)$, as $5X^6 = Y^6$ cannot have nontrivial solution. Furthermore, we cant have $(1, \ldots, 1, x, y)$ as, essentially, the gap of $X^6 + 5 >Y^6$ is essentially too big—obviously we will require $Y>X$. What comes next is the case of a possible solution to $4 X_1^6 + X_2^6 = Y^6$, i.e. a solution of the form $(x, x, \ldots, x, x_5, y) \in \mathbb Z^{\oplus 7}$. It was a burden to show that this has no solutions and I believe that it is much easier, however ,my proof is the following:


*Lemma.* The equation $4X_1^6 + X_2^6 = Y^6$ has no integer solutions where $X_1,  X_2, Y \neq 0$.

*Proof.* We utilize infinite descent. Suppose we had a solution $(x_1, x_2, y)$. We may assume, without loss of generality, that $x_1>0$, and we may assume that $x_1$ is minimal amongst all solutions. Now write $y^6 = 4x_1^6 + x_2^6$. Reducing modulo $4$, we have the equation $y^6 +3x_2^6 \equiv 0 \pmod 4$. Note that $(y^3)^2 + 3(x_2^3)^2 \equiv 0 \pmod 4$ as we're working modulo four, then the squares needs to be congruent $0$ or $1$. Considering this, we deduce the (sole) solutions $y^3 \equiv x_2^3 \equiv 0 \pmod 4$ and $y^3 \equiv x_2^3 \equiv 1 \pmod 4$.   Looking at the first case, we have the implication that $y \equiv x_2 \equiv 0 \pmod 4$, and thus we can write $y =2m$ and $x_2 = 2n$, where $m,n \in \mathbb Z$ (we may also assume that these are positive). Then, we have that $y^6-x_2^6 = (2m)^6 - (2n)^6 = 2^6 m^6 -2^6 n^6=  2^2x_1^6$, so $2^4 (m^6-n^6) = x_2^6$. This implies that $x$ is even and we can write $x = 2q$, so $x^6 = 2^6 q^6$ and thus $2^4 (m^6-n^6) = 2^6 q^6$ and thereby $m^6-n^6 = 4q^6$. Hence we have another solution, which is smaller than the assumed. Note that $X \colon 4X_1^6 +X_2^6 = Y^6$ is non-singular over $\mathbb P^2_{\mathbb Q}$, however, assuming that $X_1, X_2 \equiv 1 \pmod 4$, we can write $X \colon 4x_1^6 + (4y+1)^6 = (4z + 1)^6$, but this curve is then singular at $[0 \colon \frac{-1}{4} \colon \frac{-1}{4}] \in \mathbb P^2_{\mathbb Q}$, and this cannot occur. Hence we cannot have had a solution to start with. $\square$. 